{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [[agent]]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 === Morpheus Agent\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 //creating detailed agent info doc //adding random notes to add to doc for now\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The agent packages are pulled from the morpheus appliance over 443 via a command to callback to the appliance to get a script and execute it, for instance \u8220"curl -k -s https://appliance_url/api/server-script/agentInstall?apiKey=host_api_key\u8221". This script will determine the os distribution and create a configuration file at /etc/morpheus/morpheus-node.rb. It will add your appliance as a package repository. After the package cache is rebuilt it will install the vm-node package. After that completes a reconfigure command is run to configure our agent, our copy of rsyslogd, and the service manager runit. We run our own full stack directory at /opt/morpheus-node that has all the dependencies we need to run the agent and rsyslogd. Runit is used to manage the two services. Chef zero is used in the full stack to converge the configuration. Once the configuration run is completed the agent starts and connects back to the appliance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For Windows, it\u8217's a bit simpler the msi package is pulled from the appliance by a url and is installed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Morpheus Agent opens NO ports on the guest operating system. Instead it makes an outbound SSL connection to the appliance url (in Admin\u8594?Settings). When the agent is started it automatically makes this connection and securely authenticates.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The linux agent can be stopped via morpheus-node-ctl stop, and the Windows agent is Morpheus Windows Agent service that can be stopped. Windows agent folder is under C:/Program Files (x86)/Morpheus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can use the following to uninstall the linux agent:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 sudo rm /etc/apt/sources.list.d/morpheus.list sudo morpheus-node-ctl stop rsyslogd sudo apt-get -y purge morpheus-vm-node sudo rm -rf /opt/morpheus-node sudo usermod -l morpheus-old morpheus-node sudo killall runsv sudo killall runsvdir sudo killall morphd\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The agent is controlled by morpheus-node-ctl which is a runit service manager.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 curl -k -s \u8220"https://appliance_url/api/server-script/agentInstall?apiKey=host_api_key\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 chef solo running in zero mode using the -z switch\par}
}
