{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 == Managing Backups\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 //video\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 === Overview\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Backups are automatically configured and performed on each new \{morpheus\}-provisioned Instance. Users can edit the frequency of backups. Administrators can define destination targets where backups are stored an perform all user-based tasks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To View Backups:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Select the Backups link in the navigation bar. Note: If backups are disabled, they are still created upon instance provisioning and can be executed manually. However, backups will not be executed on a schedule automatically. Scheduled backups must be enabled by an administrator to run automatically. To review how to enable/disable backups see here.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 === Backup View\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Review information about configuration such as: schedule, target details, total amount and successfully run backups, total and average size of backups from the Backup Page.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To Display Backup:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Select the Backups link in the navigation bar. Select the Backups link in the sub navigation bar. Clicking the backup name to review its details.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 === Create Instance Backup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To create instance backup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Select the Backups link in the navigation bar. Select the Backups link in the sub navigation bar. Click the Add Backup button. From the Create Backup Wizard select the radio button Instance, then click Next. Input the following: Name - Name of the backup job being created Instance - Select an instance to backup from the dropdown. Click Next. Depending on the instance type selected in the previous step, enter additional details such as: Database Name Username Password Container etc.. Click the Next button. Schedule the backup Days Time Click the button Complete to save.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 === Create Server Backup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To create server backup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Select the Backups link in the navigation bar. Select the Backups link in the sub navigation bar. Click Add Backup. From the Create Backup Wizard select the radio button Server, then click Next. Input the following: Name of the backup job being created Server Type of backup you wish to create. File Directory Mongo MySQL Postgres Click Next. Different options are presented based upon the type of backup being created. Backup Types: File/Directory - input path for the backup. Mongo/MySQL/Postgres - input 'Database IP Address/URL', 'Database Port', 'Database Username', 'Database Password', 'Database Name', and the option to select 'All Databases'. Click Next. Schedule the backup Days Time Click Complete to save.\par}
}
