=== Configuring Tenants and Resources for Multi-Tenancy

A very common scenario for Managed Service Providers is the need to
provide access to resources on a customer by customer basis. Several
administrative features are available in |morpheus| to ensure customer
resources are properly scoped and isolated. With its built multi-tenancy
capabilities and white label support, managed service providers have a
wide range of capabilities when it comes to managing customer Tenants
and users.

==== Tenants

There are essentially two types of Tenants in |morpheus| 

-  Master Tenant
-  Sub Tenants

During the initial setup of a |morpheus| Appliance, the Master Tenant is
created. All Tenants created in addition to this Master Tenant are
sub-Tenants. There can only be one Master Tenant, and sub-Tenants cannot
become the Master Tenant. The delineation between the Master Tenant and
sub-Tenants is important to understand for properly scoping resources
across Tenants.

==== Creating Tenants

The Master Tenant is created during the initial appliance setup.
Additional sub-Tenants can be created in the
``Administration -> Tenants`` section.

The Tenants page displays a list of all Tenants. This page enables users
to: Create, Edit, and Delete Tenants. The list of Tenants displays the
Tenant Name, Role, Total Instances, Total Users, and the Created Date.
Click the Tenant Name to drill into the Tenant View where you can again
Edit, Delete, as well as Create Users, Edit Users, and Delete Users
users belonging to the Tenant.

NOTE: At least one Tenant in addition to the Master Tenant is required
to scope resources across Tenants.

To create a new sub-Tenant

. Select the Administration link in the navigation bar. . Select the
Tenants link in the sub navigation bar. . lick the Create Tenant button.
. From the New Tenant wizard input

-  Name
-  Description(optional)
-  Base Role- Primary role of the Tenant. All roles created within the
   Tenant must inherit this role as the base role.
-  Currency (for pricing)
-  Limits- These restrict the amount of Storage, Memory, and CPUs that
   can be collectively provisioned by all users in the Tenant. The
   default is 0 for these limits, which means no limits will be applied.

. Click the Save Changes button.

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-09a1e.png[]

==== Viewing Tenants

To View an individual Tenant page, select the Tenant name from the main
Tenants section.

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-fa0d8.png[]

From inside this Tenant view, the Tenant settings can be edited,
existing users can be viewed or edited, and new users for this Tenant
can be created.

==== Create a new user for an Tenant

To create a new user for an Tenant (Note: Users are specific to each
Tenant. Users created in the Master Tenant or other sub-Tenants will
only have access to the Tenant they are created in.)\*

. Click the CREATE USER button . From the New User wizard input the
fields below. \* First Name of the user being created \* Last Name of
the user being created \* Username used to login \* Email address of the
new user \* Role to be inherited by the user \* Password \* Storage,
Memory and CPU limits for this specific user, if any (0 is no limit)

. Click Save Changes.

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-e194d.png[]

==== Impersonate User (v2.8.6 or later)

In version 2.8.6 or later, "Impersonate User" is a new Role enabling
administrators to login as sub-Tenant users directly from the master
Tenant.

To impersonate a user, you must be logged in as a user with the
"Impersonate User" feature enabled in assigned role.

Navigate to Tenants, select an Tenant, and in the specific user ACTIONS
drop down, select "Impersonate"

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-9583a.png[]

This will log you in as that user in their respective Tenant. To log out
of the impersonate users Tenant, select the username in the top right,
and then select "Quit Impersonating"

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-d229b.png[]

==== Resource Visibility and Assigning Resources to Tenants

In the Master Tenant, resources can be configured with private or public
visibility:

-  Private Visibility: Only available to the assigned Tenant.
-  Public Visibility (master Tenant only): Available across all Tenants

Resources in the Master Tenant can also be assigned directly to
sub-Tenants. When a resource is assigned to a sub-Tenant, it is only
available for that sub-Tenant, and its visibility is automatically set
to private. Public Visibility is not an option for any resource assigned
to or created in a sub-Tenant.

From the master Tenant, the following resources can be configured for
public visibility across all Tenants, or assigned to individual
sub-Tenants

-  Clouds
-  Hosts
-  Virtual Machines
-  Networks
-  Datastores
-  Resource Pools
-  Virtual Image Templates
-  Pricing
-  Policies
-  Workflows
-  Roles

NOTE: Virtual Image Templates can also be made available to multiple
select Tenants when set to private.

==== Cloud Visibility & Assignment

Edit Visibility of a Cloud

To set the Visibility of cloud to Public (shared across all Tenants) or
Private (only available to the assigned Tenant):

. Navigate to Infrastructure, Clouds . Select either the pencil/edit
icon on the far right of the cloud row, or click the name of the cloud
and select "Edit" in the top right of the cloud page. . From the
"Visibility" drop down, select either "Public" or "Private" . Select
"Save Changes" in the lower right of the Edit Cloud modal.

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-349e2.png[]

When a cloud is set to Public visibility, it is available to be added to
sub Tenants. All sub-Tenants created after a master Tenant cloud is set
to public will automatically have clouds with public visibility added,
and a group will be created for each available cloud matching the cloud
name in the new sub Tenant(s).

For Tenants created prior to a Master Tenant cloud being set to public
visibility, the sub Tenant will have the option to add that cloud but it
will not automatically be added.

While the cloud will be available for Sub-Tenants, the resources
available in that cloud to the sub-Tenant(s) depends on the visibility
or assignment of the individual resources.

NOTE: A sub-Tenant user must have sufficient role permissions/cloud
access to add publicly available clouds. Master Tenant clouds settings
cannot be edited from sub Tenants.

=== Assign a Cloud to an Tenant

IMPORTANT: When assigning a Cloud to an Tenant, all resources for that
Cloud will only be available to the assigned Tenant. If a cloud is
created in the Master Tenant and assigned to a sub-Tenant, it will no
longer be available for use by the Master Tenant or any other
sub-Tenants, although it can be assigned back to the Master Tenant, or
to another sub-Tenant.

It may be preferable for service providers to share or assign their
cloud resources, such as specific hosts, networks, resources pools and
datastores, across sub-Tenants, rather than an entire cloud.

To assign a cloud from the Master Tenant to a Sub-Tenant:

. Navigate to Infrastructure, Clouds . Select either the pencil/edit
icon on the far right of the cloud row, or click the name of the cloud
and select "Edit" in the top right of the cloud page. . From the
"Tenant" drop down, select the Tenant to assign the cloud to. The
visibility will automatically be set to "Private" when a cloud is
assigned to a sub-Tenant. . Select "Save Changes" in the lower right of
the Edit Cloud modal.

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-c907d.png[]

When a cloud is assigned to a sub-Tenant, or assigned to the Master
Tenant with private visibility, that cloud and all of its resources are
only available to the assigned Tenant. The Master Tenant still maintains
control and visibility, and can edit the cloud settings or re-assign the
cloud.

==== Resource Visibility & Assignment

Similar to clouds, individual resources from the Master Tenant can be
set to public and available to sub-Tenants, or assigned to sub-Tenants.

By default, any host, virtual machine, bare metal server, network,
resource pool, datastore or template added, created or inventoried by an
Tenant is assigned to that Tenant. If these resources are in the Master
Tenant, they can be assigned to sub Tenants. Assigning one of these
resources will make it unavailable to the Master Tenant, but it will
still be visible and editable by the Master Tenant. This allows Master
Tenant resources to be isolated for use by sub-Tenants while still under
the control of the Master Tenant.

Resources assigned to sub-Tenants from the Master Tenant will be visible
and available for use by that sub-Tenant, however they cannot be edited
or re-assigned by the sub-tenant.

==== Set the Visibility of a Host, Virtual Machine or Bare metal Server
to Public or Private

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Infrastructure, Hosts . Select
either the Hosts, Virtual Machines or Bare Metal tab . Click the name of
the resource . Select "Edit" in the top right of the resource page to
bring up the config modal. . From the "Visibility" drop down, select
either "Public" or "Private" . Select "Save Changes" in the lower right
of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-d738d.png[]

==== Assigning a Host, Virtual Machine, or Bare Metal server to an
Tenant

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Infrastructure, Hosts . Select
either the Hosts, Virtual Machines or Bare Metal tab . Click the name of
the resource . From the "Actions" dropdown in the top right of the
resource page, select Assign Tenant . In the Assign Tenant modal, select
the Tenant to assign the resource to. . Select "Execute" in the lower
right of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-3c39f.png[]

The resource will now be assigned and available for use by the assigned
Tenant. If assigned to a sub-Tenant, the Master Tenant will maintain
visibility and control.

==== Set the Visibility of a Network to Public or Private

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Infrastructure, Network . Select
either the pencil/edit icon on the far right of the network row, or
click the name of the network and select "Edit" in the top right of the
network page. . From the "Visibility" drop down, select either "Public"
or "Private" . Select "Save Changes" in the lower right of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-bc333.png[]

==== Assign a Network to an Tenant

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Infrastructure, Network . Select
either the pencil/edit icon on the far right of the network row, or
click the name of the network and select "Edit" in the top right of the
network page. . From the "Tenant" drop down, select an Tenant to assign
the network to. . Select "Save Changes" in the lower right of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-9f15c.png[]

The Network will now be assigned and available for use by the assigned
Tenant. If assigned to a sub-Tenant, the Master Tenant will maintain
visibility and control.

==== Set the Visibility or assign a datastore to an Tenant

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Infrastructure, Storage . Select
the "Data Stores" tab . Select Edit from the "Actions" dropdown on the
far right of the datastores row . From the "Visibility" drop down,
select either "Public" or "Private" . From the "Tenant" drop down,
select the Tenant to assign the datastore to. + NOTE: If assigned to a
sub-tenant, the visibility will be automatically set to private.

. Select "Save Changes" in the lower right of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-1e978.png[]

==== Set the Visibility or assign a Virtual Image to an Tenant

. From the Master Tenant, navigate to Provisioning, Virtual Images .
Select Edit from the "Actions" dropdown on the far right of the Virtual
Images row . From the "Visibility" drop down, select either "Public" or
"Private". Public will share the . From the "Tenant" field, start typing
the name of the Tenant to assign the Virtual Image to. Matching Tenants
will populate, then select the Tenant to add. + NOTE: Virtual Images can
be set to Private, but accessible to more that one Tenant

. Repeat step 4 for all Tenants requiring access to the virtual image.
.. To remove access for an Tenant, click the "x" next to the Tenant name
. Select "Save Changes" in the lower right of the modal

image::images/configuring\_multi\_tenancy-d9abe.png[]

The Virtual Image will now be available for use by the assigned Tenants.
