[[veeam]]

Veeam Settings
--------------

Enabled:: Enable the Veeam integration Default Backup Provider:: Sets
Veeam as the Default Backup Provider in |morpheus| . Backup Providers can
be configured per Backup. Visibility:: Sets visibility in multi-tenant
|morpheus| environments. \* Public: Accessible by all Tenants \*
Private: Accessible only to the Tenant the Veeam integration is added. +
Host:: Host name or the IP address of the Veeam Backup Enterprise
Manager. This is the same host that you use to access the Veeam Backup
Enterprise Manager browser-based user interface. Port:: The HTTP(S) port
of the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager API. The default is 9399.
Username:: The username used to authenticate with the Veeam Backup
Enterprise Manager. Password:: The password used to authenticate with
the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager. Backup Repositories:: Once
credentials are authenticated, search will populate available Veeam
Repositories to select from. Backup Job Templates:: The backup jobs
configured in the Veeam Backup and Replication Console that can be
cloned when creating new backup jobs. Refresh Available Jobs:: Use to
sync newly created Jobs in Veeam.

IMPORTANT: Once a Veeam Integration has been enabled, a ``VEEAM SERVER``
setting will be available in VMware and Hyper-V cloud settings
(``Infrastructure -> Clouds -> Edit a Cloud``). To enabled backups on a
Cloud, a Veeam Server must be select in the ``VEEAM SERVER`` dropdown in
the Cloud settings and saved. Failure to do so will result in blank
``Backup Repositories`` and ``Backup Job Templates`` options when
configuring Veeam Backups.
