RHEL
----

To get started installing |morpheus| on RHEL 7 a few prerequisite items
are required.

The RedHat Enterprise Linux 7 server needs to be registered and
activated with Redhat subscription. The server optional rpms repo needs
to be enabled as well.

To check if the server has been actived please run the
subscription-manager version. Subscription manager will return the
version plus the python depency version.

If the server has not been registered and activated then the
subscription manager version will return the below message.

.. code-block:: bash


[root@appliance ~]# subscription-manager version server type: This
system is currently not registered subscription management server:
0.9.51.24.-1 subscription-manager: 1.10.14-7.el7 python-rhsm:
1.10.12-2.el7 ----

When a server has been registered and activated with Redhat the
subscription manager will return the below message.

.. code-block:: bash


[root@appliance ~]# subscription-manager version server type: Red Hat
Subscription Management subscription management server: 0.9.51.24-1
subscription-manager: 1.10.14-7.el7 python-rhsm: 1.10.12-2.el7 ----

If the subscription manager re-turns the message "This system is
currently not registered" please follow the below steps to register the
server.

TIP: To register the server you will need to have sudo permissions
[Member of the Wheel group] or root access to the server. You will also
need your redhat registered email address and password.

. subscription-manager register + .. code-block:: bash ---- [root@appliance ~]#
subscription-manager register Username: redhat@example.com Password:
----

. subscription-manager auto --attach [Note this can take a minute to
complete.] + .. code-block:: bash ---- sudo subscription-manager attach --auto

Installed Product Current Status: Product Name: Red Hat Enterprise Linux
Server Status: Subscribed ----

To check to see if the RHEL server has the Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7
Server - Optional (RPMs) repo enabled please run the following command
to return the repo status.

TIP: To check the server repos you will need to have sudo permissions
[Member of the Wheel group] or root access to the server.

.. code-block:: bash


sudo yum repolist all \| grep "rhel-7-server-optional-rpms"
rhel-7-server-optional-rpms/7Server/x86\_64 disabled ----

If the repo status was returned as disabled then you will need to enable
the repo using the subsciption manager like below.

.. code-block:: bash


sudo subscription-manager repos --enable rhel-7-server-optional-rpms
Repo 'rhel-7-server-optional-rpms' is enabled for this system. ----

The message "Repo 'rhel-7-server-optional-rpms' is enabled for this
system." will appear after enabling the repo. This will confirm that the
repo has been enabled.

Next simply download the relevant ``.rpm`` package for installation.
This package can be acquired from your account rep or via a free trial
request from https://www.morpheusdata.com[morheusdata.com].

TIP: Use the ``wget`` command to directly download the package to your
appliance server. i.e.
``wget https://downloads.gomorpheus.com/path/to/package.rpm``

Next we must install the package onto the machine and configure the
morpheus services:

.. code-block:: bash


sudo rpm -i morpheus-appliance\_x.x.x-1.amd64.rpm sudo morpheus-ctl
reconfigure ----

Once the installation is complete the web interface will automatically
start up. By default it will be resolvable at
``https://your_machine_name`` and in many cases this may not be
resolvable from your browser. The url can be changed by editing
``/etc/morpheus/morpheus.rb`` and changing the value of
``appliance_url``. After this has been changed simply run:

.. code-block:: bash


sudo morpheus-ctl reconfigure sudo morpheus-ctl stop morpheus-ui sudo
morpheus-ctl start morpheus-ui ----

NOTE: The ``morpheus-ui`` can take 2-3 minutes to startup before it
becomes available.

There are additional post install settings that can be viewed in the
Advanced section of the guide.

Once the browser is pointed to the appliance a first time setup wizard
will be presented. Please follow the on screen instructions by creating
the master account. From there you will be presented with the license
settings page where a license can be applied for use (if a license is
required you may request one or purchase one by contacting your sales
representative).

More details on setting up infrastructure can be found throughout this
guide.

TIP: If any issues occur it may be prudent to check the morpheus log for
details at ``/var/log/morpheus/morpheus-ui/current``.
