
Proxies
-------

Overview
^^^^^^^^

In many situations , companies deploy virtual machines in proxy
restricted environments for things such as PCI Compliance, or just
general security. As a result of this |morpheus| provides out of the box
support for proxy connectivity. Proxy authentication support is also
provided with both Basic Authentication capabilities as well as NTLM for
Windows Proxy environments. |morpheus| is even able to configure virtual
machines it provisions to utilize these proxies by setting up the
operating systems proxy settings directly (restricted to cloud-init
based Linux platforms for now, but can also be done on windows based
platforms in a different manner).

To get started with Proxies, it may first be important to configure the
|morpheus| appliance itself to have access to proxy communication for
downloading service catalog images. To configure this, visit the Admin
-> Settings page where a section labeled "Proxy Settings" is located.
Fill in the relevant connection info needed to utilize the proxy. It may
also be advised to ensure that the Linux environment's ``http_proxy``,
``https_proxy``, and ``no_proxy`` are set appropriately.

Defining Proxies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Proxies can be used in a few different contexts and optionally scoped to
specific networks with which one may be provisioning into or on a cloud
integration as a whole. To configure a Proxy for use by the provisioning
engines within |morpheus| we must go to
``Infrastructure -> Networks -> Proxies``. Here we can create records
representing connection information for various proxies. This includes
the host ip address, proxy port, and any credentials (if necessary)
needed to utilize the proxy. Now that these proxies are defined we can
use them in various contexts.

Cloud Communication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When morpheus needs to connect to various cloud APIs to issue
provisioning commands or to sync in existing environments, we need to
ensure that those api endpoints are accessible by the appliance. In some
cases the appliance may be behind a proxy when it comes to public cloud
access like Azure and AWS. To configure the cloud integration to utilize
a proxy, when adding or editing a cloud there is a setting called "API
Proxy" under "Advanced Options". This is where the proxy of choice can
be selected to instruct the Provisioning engine how to communicate with
the public cloud. Simply adjust this setting and the cloud should start
being able to receive/issue instructions.

Provisioning with Proxies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Proxy configurations can vary from operating system to operating system
and in some cases it is necessary for these to be configured in the
templates as a prerequisite. In other cases it can also be configured
automatically. Mostly with the use of cloud-init (which all of our out
of the box service catalog utilizes on all clouds). When
editing/creating a cloud there is a setting for "Provisioning Proxy" in
"Provisioning Options". If this proxy is set, |morpheus| will
automatically apply these proxy settings to the guest operating system.

Overriding proxy settings can also be done on the Network record.
Networks (or subnets) can be configured in
``Infrastructure -> Networks`` or on the Networks tab of the relevant
Cloud detail page. Here, a proxy can also be assigned as well as
additional options like the ``No Proxy`` rules for proxy exceptions.

Docker
^^^^^^

When provisioning Docker based hosts within a Proxy environment it is up
to the user to configure the docker hosts proxy configuration manually.
There are workflows that can be configured via the Automation engine to
make this automatic when creating docker based hosts. Please see
documentation on Docker and proxies for specific information.

Proxy setups can vary widely from company to company, and it may be
advised to contact support for help configuring morpheus to work in the
proxy environment.
