Docker
^^^^^^

So far this document has covered how to add the VMware cloud integration and has enabled users the ability to provision virtual machine based instances via the `Add Instance` catalog in `Provisioning`. Another great feature provided by |morpheus| out of the box is the ability to use Docker containers and even support multiple containers per Docker host. To do this a Docker Host must first be provisioned into VMware (multiple are needed when dealing with horizontal scaling scenarios).

To provision a Docker Host simply navigate to the Clusters tab of the Cloud detail page or Infrastructure > Clusters section. From there, click :guilabel:`+ ADD CLUSTER` to add a VMware Docker Host. This host will show up in the Hosts tab next to other ESXi servers that were inventoried by the VMware cloud integration. |morpheus| views a Docker host just like any other Hypervisor with the caveat being that it is used for running containerized images instead of virtualized ones. Once a Docker Host is successfully provisioned a green checkmark will appear to the right of the host marking it as available for use. In the event of a failure click into the relevant host that failed and an error explaining the failure will be displayed in red at the top.

Some common error scenarios include network connectivity. For a Docker Host to function properly, it must be able to resolve the |morpheus| appliance url which can be configured in |AdmSet|. If it is unable to resolve and negotiate with the appliance than the agent installation will fail and provisioning instructions will not be able to be issued to the host.
