Instance Actions
----------------

Instance actions allow you to perform numerous management tasks on
instances. The actions available depend on the instance type,
hypervisor, roles permissions, and instance state.

Edit:: Edit the Name, Description, Environment, or Group for the
Instance. Delete:: Deletes the Instance.

IMPORTANT: Deleting an Instance will delete associated VM's or
Containers and cannot be undone. To delete instances without deleting
associated VM's, delete the VM from the Infrastructure section and
uncheck "Remove Infrastructure" while checking "Remove Associated
Instances" in the delete modal options.

Actions::

Available options in the Actions dropdown can include:

Suspend:: Puts the VM in a suspended state without shutting down the OS.
Stop/Start/Restart Service:: Stops, Starts or Restarts the service
associated with the Instance Type. Stop/Start/Restart Server:: Stops,
Starts or Restarts the Virtual Machine. Lock/Unlock Instance:: A locked
instance cannot be deleted until it is unlocked. Import As Image::
Creates a Virtual Image template from the Instance at its current state
and adds it to the Virtual Image library with corresponding metadata.
Reconfigure:: The Reconfigure action allows service plan, disk, cpu,
ram, networks and storage controller changes. Available options depend
on the instance type and service plan configuration. Some resize actions
require an instance restart. Clone:: Creates a new Instance from the
Instance at its current state. Backup:: Immediately executes a backup of
the Instance. Only available for Instances with backups enabled. Run
Workflow:: Presents workflow options and then immediately runs selected
Workflow on the Instance. Workflows can be created in the
``Provisioning -> Automation`` section. Run Script:: Presents Script
options and immediately executes selected Script on the Instance.
Scripts can be created in the ``Provisioning -> Library`` section. Apply
Template:: Presents Template options and immediately applies selected
Template to the Instance. Templates can be created in the
``Provisioning -> Library`` section. Add Node:: Adds an additional node
to the configuration. Additional options and configurations are required
in the add node wizard depending on instance configuration and type.
Eject Disk:: Ejects attached disk/iso. Add Slave:: Adds a database slave
in the Instance. Change Master:: Changes the database Master node in an
Instance.

TIP: Scrolling down in the Actions dropdown may be necessary to see all
options.

===== Performing Instance Actions

. Select the Provisioning link in the navigation bar. . Click the
Instance from the list of instances you wish to perform an action on. .
Click the Actions drop down button and select an Action.

//Instances\_\_\_|morpheus| \_Reconfigure.png

==== Notes

Every Instance has a Notes section for adding useful information about
the Instance. Notes can be added by selecting the ``ADD NOTES`` button
on the bottom of Instance Detail pages. Existing notes can be edited by
selecting the ``EDIT NOTES``

TIP: Markdown Syntax is supported in Instance Notes.
