v2.12.2
=======

*v2.12.2 release date 10/9/2017*

**Morpheus v2.12.2 adds the ServiceNow CMDB Integration, improvements to existing Features and Integrations, and bug fixes and enhancements.**

- ServiceNow CMDB Integration: The Morpheus ServiceNow CMDB integration creates a CMDB record upon Instance provision, updates the CMDB state when an instance is removed, and syncs changed Instance states nightly.
- Additional ServiceNow Plugin Improvements
- "Disable Management of Firewall by Agent" option added to Cloud settings.
- Editing existing Environment Variables support added for Windows
- VMware Folder support added to apps and templates
- Nutanix Unmanaged Network Static IP support added
- Script Variables added for Volumes: id: ``vol.id, name: vol.name, deviceName: vol.deviceName, maxStorage: vol.maxStorage, unitNumber: vol.unitNumber,displayOrder: vol.displayOrder, rootVolume: vol.rootVolume``
- vmxnet3 set as default VMware Network Adapter type.
- Chef bootstrap process output added to Instance History
- Improved Tenant Deletion
- Improved VMware Folder and Resource Pool sync
- Mobile layout improvements
- Local Chef install url for windows msi added.
- Email layout improvements for broader email client support.
- Chef Integration now determines when FQDN should not be added.
- Improved Provisioning error outputs
- Improvements to User scoped permissions for monitoring, logs and backups.

Fixes:

- Fix for Bulk Network Edit
- Fix for DHCP flag being reset on Nutanix networks upon cloud sync.
- Fix for Agent timestamp handling
- Fix for Dashboard 500 error when user Role Permissions = Monitoring : User
- Fix for Netscaler SSL cert upload
- Fix for server stop/start when inventoried server is converted to managed and Instance Type is applied.
- Additional character handling in Automation Scripts
- Fix for Remove Shutdown Instance Action hanging
- Fix for Instance History purge
- Various other bug fixes and improvements

Morpheus v2.12.2 is available in the Downloads section of `morpheushub.com<https://morpheushub.com/>`_.
