v3.2.1
======

.. IMPORTANT:: Morpheus v3.2.0+ introduces Global Search, which requires an Elasticsearch upgrade. Upgrading from previous versions of Morpheus to a 3.2.0 or later requires you to upgrade ElasticSerach to 5.4.1 or 5.x. We do not support ElasticSearch 6.x at this time.  This upgrade requires you to export and import your Morpheus ElasticSearch data if you want to retain logs, backup history, statistics, and check history of your instances. If you do not need to retain that data you can skip the ElasticSearch migration.  Upgrading to 3.2.0+ will create a blank ElasticSearch node with no data. Your Morpheus layout configuration will determine how to migrate your ElasticSearch data: all-in-one, distributed high availability, or Morpheus clustered appliances.

Please refer to upgrade instructions below the release notes.

New Features
------------

- Instances: Last Deployment Name/Version added to Instance list & details sections
- Library: Minimum Memory field added to Layouts. Only the service plan options meeting this requirement will be displayed during provisioning.
- Load Balancers: F5- VIP Creation Validation added
- Load Balancers: F5- Pool Creation Validation added
- Load Balancers: F5- SSL Profile Option during VIP Creation added
- Load Balancers: F5- SSL Remove Policies Option during VIP Creation added
- Networks: Network filter added to Bluecat Service.
- Virtual Images: Minimum Memory field add to Virtual Images. Only the service plan options meeting this requirement will be displayed during provisioning. Note this will override any memory requirement set on the virtual image.
- VMware: Cores per Socket Added to VMware type Service Plans
- VMware: Sync time optimizations & memory utilization improvements

Fixes
-----

- Fix for VMware MV inventory issue when VM's exist with same name in different resource pools
- Fix for setting custom group access on legacy subtenant role.
- Fix for white labeling favicon resetting to default
- Fix for Analytics filter issues when filtering by Cloud or Group
- Fix for API & CLI `groups list` timeouts in high usage environments
- Fix for Nutanix Cloudbase-init metadata
- Fix for Instance Removal from CLI not recording user
- Fix for Bare metal: Convert to Managed creating Docker type check
- Fix for Cloud Delete: service plan foreign key constraint prevents deleting of service plans during cloud delete
- Fix for the global search HA replica count being set to 0 instead of 1


.. IMPORTANT:: For upgrades to 3.2.0 please follow the 3.2.0 upgrade instructions below!

.. include:: /getting_started/320upgrade.rst
