v3.3.1
======

Release Date 4/15/2018

.. IMPORTANT:: If upgrading from versions earlier than 3.2.0 please follow the 3.2.0+ upgrade instructions below the release notes.

Whats New
---------

* Azure Scale Sets support added
* Azure: Network Security Group selection no longer required
* Bluecat: Network filter option added to Integration settings
* Cypher: TFvars added for Teraform. Allows variable files stored in cypher to be used with Teraform Templates.
* Global Search: Apps & Library Items categories added
* Infoblox: Host and Zone Record Sync added
* Infoblox: Manual Host and Zone record creation, deletion and reservations added
* Infrastructure- Hosts: Typing DELETE now required when removing infrastructure
* Instances: Mute Checks option added on shutdown
* Instance Details: Last Deployment Name and Version added
* KeyPairs: Validation and conversion service added
* Library: Morpheus Node Types for CentOS 7.3 for Nutanix and ESXi added
* Load Balancers: F5 Pool Creation Validation, VIP Creation Validation, VIP Creation SSL Profile and Remove Policies Options added
* Morpheus Appliance: Major Speed and resource utilization improvements
* Networks- IP Pools: Used and Total IPs progress bar added
* Networks- IP Pools: IP Pool Detail Pages added
* Networks - Services: IPAM Service Detail Pages added with Host Record Grids and List views.
* Networks - IP Pools: Created date and created by user tracking added to IP assignments.
* Networks: Domain Detail Pages added
* Networks - Services: DNS Services Zone Record sync added
* Oracle Cloud: Ability to provision by OCID added
* Oracle Cloud: Multiple Compartment support and default Compartment selection added
* Oracle Cloud: Provisioning improvements
* Oracle Cloud: Reconfigure added
* Plans: Cores Per Socket specification added to VMware type plans
* Provisioning - Automation: Scale Thresholds section added. Scale Thresholds can be pre-defined and selected when scaling Instances.
* Reports: Costs added to Virtual Machine Inventory Summary report
* Reports: Provision Times added to exported Virtual Machine Inventory Summary reports
* Templates: TFvars selection added
* VCD: Custom Library Nodes added
* VCD: Virtual Image upload added
* Virtual Images: Minimum Ram Requirement field added. Limits which plans will be available for selection at provision time.

.. IMPORTANT:: If upgrading from versions earlier than 3.2.0 please follow the 3.2.0+ upgrade instructions below

.. include:: /getting_started/320upgrade.rst
