F5 Load Balancers
-----------------

Add F5 Load Balancer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To add a F5 Load Balancer Integration:

#. Navigate to `Infrastructure > Load Balancers`
#. Select :guilabel:`+ ADD`
#. Select `F5 BigIP`
#. Fill in the following:

   GROUP
    Select the Group the Load Balancer will be available for
   CLOUD
    Select the Cloud the Load Balancer will be available for
   NAME
    Name of the Load Balancer in |morpheus|
   DESCRIPTION
    Identifying information displayed on the Load Balancer list page.
   VISIBILITY
    Define Multi-Tenant permissions
   API HOST
    IP or resolvable hostname url.
   API PORT
    Typically ``8443``
   USERNAME
    API user
   PASSWORD
    API user password
   MANAGEMENT URL
    Example: ``https://10.30.20.31:8443/xui/``

   Advanced Options (optional)
    * VIRTUAL NAME
    * POOL NAME
    * SERVER NAME

#. Save Changes

.. IMPORTANT:: The F5 API handles SSL certificate installation by downloading the certificate from a URL the user provides. |morpheus| provides the "Appliance URL" configured in global settings (|AdmSetApp|) to satisfy that requirement. Make sure you have configured a valid URL in this field and that F5 can reach it.

Virtual Servers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Instances attached to an F5 will be listed in the Virtual servers tab. Virtual servers can also be manually added in this section.

Add Virtual Server
``````````````````

#. Navigate to `Infrastructure > Load Balancers`
#. Select F5 Integration name to drill into the detail page
#. Select :guilabel:`+ ADD` in the VIRTUAL SERVERS tab
#. Fill in the following:

   * NAME
      Name of the Virtual Server in |morpheus|
   * DESCRIPTION
      Description of the Virtual Server in |morpheus|
   * Enabled
      Uncheck to keep the configuration but disable F5 availability in |morpheus|
   * VIP TYPE
      * Standard
      * Forwarding (Layer 2)
      * Forwarding (IP)
      * Performance (HTTP)
      * Performance (Layer 4)
      * Stateless
      * Reject
      * DHCP
      * Internal
      * Message Routing
   * VIP HOSTNAME
      Enter Hostname of the VIP (optional)
   * VIP ADDRESS
      Enter IP address for the VIP
   * VIP PORT
      Enter post used for the VIP
   * SOURCE ADDRESS
      Enter Virtual Server source address
   * PROTOCOL
      tcp, udp, or sctp
   * PROFILES
      Search for and select from available PROFILES
   * POLICIES
      Search for and select from available POLICIES
   * IRULES
      Search for and select from available RUEL SCRIPTS
   * PERSISTENCE
      * cookie
      * dest-addr
      * global-settings
      * hash
      * msrdp
      * sip
      * source-addr
      * ssl
      * universal
   * DEFAULT POOL
      Select from available POOLS

#. Select :guilabel:`SAVE CHANGES`

Policies
^^^^^^^^

Policies will be synced and listed in the Policies tab. These policies will be available options when creating Virtual Servers.

Pools
^^^^^

Create Pool
```````````

NAME
  Name of the POOL in |morpheus|
DESCRIPTION
  Description of the POOL in |morpheus|
BALANCE MODE
    * Round Robin
    * Least Connections
SERVICE PORT
  Specify SERVICE PORT for the POOL
MEMBERS
  Search for and select from available NODES
MONITORS
  Search for and select from available Monitors

Profiles
^^^^^^^^

SSL Profiles are synced and and will be created when an SSL Certificate is assigned in the Load balancer section when provisioning or editing a Load balancer on an Instance.

Monitors
^^^^^^^^

Create Monitor
``````````````

NAME
 Name of the MONITOR in |morpheus|
DESCRIPTION
 Description of the MONITOR in |morpheus|
PARENT MONITOR
 Select from available MONITORS
DESTINATION
 Specify Destination, such a ``*:443``. Default is ``*:*``
INTERVAL
 Specify Monitor Interval. Default is ``5``
TIMEOUT
 Specify Monitor Timeout. Default is ``15``
MONITOR CONFIG
 Enter monitor config.

Nodes
^^^^^

Create Node
```````````

NAME
 Name of the NODE in |morpheus|
DESCRIPTION
 Description of the NODE in |morpheus|
ADDRESS
 Enter node address
MONITOR
 Select from available MONITORS
SERVICE PORT
 Specify SERVICE PORT for the NODE

Rule Scripts
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Rule Scripts will be synced and listed in the RULE SCRIPTS tab. These rules will be available options when creating Virtual Servers.
